# 3D-Object-To-Do-List
  This is a project in which the to-do tasks are represented by 3D cubes 

  In the opening_window.html file, I set the margin of the browser window to be borderless, after which I set the background color to be white with a capacity of 0.8, I set the viewport to ensure the page is responsive and fits the screen of the device it’s being viewed on. UTF-8 is UTF-8 is a widely used encoding that supports almost all characters, used for the encoding of the HTML. The title has been set to 3D To-Do List which will appear in the browser tab. The external javascript file was selected to be app.js since it is the main file for the TO-DO list, also the line <script src="./app.js" type="module"></script> allows for the use of ES6 module features like "import", "export". I have also added an "Add Task" button for adding tasks, along with a task list, where the tasks will be displayed as list items. I have included the style.css file in this folder for styling and the UI interface. If the user wants to add a task, it will be named accordingly in the top left box, and after that by clicking the "Add Task" button, a cube will appear on the screen. If the user wishes to remove the task, simply right-clicking on the name of the task in the displayed list on the left, under the box for the text, will do the trick.

  In the style.css file, I set up the UI interface in a user-friendly way. I have chosen margin = 0 so that it will remove the default margins of the page, to prevent the white spaces around the page, next I have chosen  overflow = hidden so that everything that overflows the visible dimensions of the page will be hidden. Next, I have chosen display = block to eliminate unwanted spaces. For the UI, I have chosen position = absolute so that it positions the element relative to its nearest positioned ancestor, then the object is placed 10 pixels from the top of its positioned ancestors and 10 pixels from the left of its positioned ancestor. The background color has been set to white. Then I added a 10-pixel space inside all sides of the element, after which I rounded the corners of the element with a 5-pixel radius. I have also changed the cursor to a pointer so that  when hovering over list items, indicating that they are clickable, using taskList li { cursor: pointer; }.

  In the app.js file, I chose two kinds of lights: ambient and directional, and for the cubes I have chosen StandarMaterial because I wanted to see the effects of the directional light. I have also set up a grid, and axes. For the scene rendering, I have chosen to use the three.js library for the further development of the scene. For the navigation around the scene, I have chosen Orbit Controls, which enables movement around the scene with the help of the scroll wheel of the mouse and simply by dragging the scene around with the mouse to change directions and angles. Each cube has the color green and above it, a geometric text will be shown. For the text I have found an Internet JSON file: https://threejs.org/examples/fonts/helvetiker_regular.typeface.json,  which enables a special font for the text; after which the text itself is treated pretty much like a geometric form by calculating and computing the bounding box, then a color for it is selected, blue. The width and the overall dimensions od the text are calculated depending on the position of the cube itself. Regarding the positions of the cubes, the starting positions are { x: -3, y: 1, z: 0 }, the choice was made in such a way that it gives the impression that the cubes are centered along with the axeshelper. I add 1.5 to the x-axis until it reaches the value of 3, after that I increment the y-axis value by 2.5, to go up a row. The purpose is to create a matrix of cubes. Choosing 2.5 instead of 1.5 is because I wanted the text to be more visible. If a task is completed it can be eliminated by clicking on it on the left side of the screen, in the displayed list. By being removed, its position is saved in vacant_positions which essentially remembers all of the removed tasks. If there are no more cubes on the scene after the removal operation, there are no more vacant positions since the users will rearrange the cubes from the beginning like a matrix. If the users want to add a new task, the task will be placed in the position of the latest removed task. Each cube rotates, using the three.js library. The way the cubes are added are by calling the add_cube function and also using a querySelector as a eventlistener to detect the click when adding a task. To remove the cubes I have used a eventlistener that detect the user's click. Using this click, I then take the cube's position in the matrix and call the remove_cube() function. The cube is removed from the scene and also from the cubes vector.

  Other details about the running of the project. I have used parcel as a bundler. To run the project use the command => parcel ./src/opening_window.html in the directory containing the src directory
  To run the project smoothly please make sure you have three.js library installed. In case you don't, use the command => npm install three

  The package.json file is used for the app.js file to compile and run the program.

  The package-lock.json file was generated automatically when installing npm, it contains detailed and precise information about all of the installed packages, to ensure the consistency of the build

  Here is a youtube video on how to run the program, the video itself is unlisted meaning that only those who have the link may access it => https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wdH0Iwfcgb8


  
